Bible there with you, Psalm 25, and last week we started a little mini-series, just a three-part
series here going through Psalm 25 and having the opportunity, as we finished up a couple
of weeks ago, the study on the names of God, and it's just a blessing to walk through
the Psalms.
I'm so thankful for the book of Psalms, and it's such a source of encouragement,
and the psalmist is so transparent, and we can relate to, and we can get help from.
Of course, all of God's Word is profitable, and we're thankful for every part of it
this evening.
As we continue through the Psalm, let me just do a quick reminder of what we looked at last
week in the first few verses, David, it's the Psalm of David, and he begins the Psalm
this way,
As we looked last week at this Psalm, and we looked at the first three verses, and then
several verses throughout the Psalm, we spoke about the fact that the psalmist was longing
for peace.
He was longing for peace, and there were some things that David was facing in his life,
some circumstances that were adverse, and he was dealing with this great time of difficulty,
and these circumstances drove him to his knees, it caused him to lift up his soul to the Lord,
to seek the Lord, and in the time of difficulty, when he was needing peace, because of all
of the chaos and the turmoil that was around him, he knew that he could go to Jehovah Shalom,
the God who is our peace, and what a blessing to understand that, and at times, in the midst
of our storms, in the midst of the storms of those that have gone before us, we need
today, we need for our Savior, who is the Prince of Peace, to stand and say, peace,
be still.
And aren't you thankful that He can do that?
I'm so thankful that in the midst of all sorts of chaos and turmoil, and we live in
a tumultuous time, we live with all sorts of things that we face personally and corporately,
and we see those things, and we find that in a time of great chaos, that we can go to
the Lord and seek Him for that peace.
As we continue looking through this Psalm, we note number two, and it's the lesson for
this evening, that not only was David having a longing for peace, but we find throughout
the Psalm here that there's a longing for direction.
There's a longing for direction.
No doubt in your life, and in my life as well, there are times in which we have much chaos
going on, and we need peace, and we know that we can go to God and He can give peace, but
then at other times, we are facing circumstances and difficulties, and we just need direction.
Have you ever been in a position where you just don't know what to do?
Just don't know what to do.
And the truth of the matter is that we are not omniscient.
Amen?
The Bible talks about the prudent man, and we're to be prudent, to try to see those things
ahead, but the reality is that we don't know what's on tomorrow, but God does.
How many of you use GPS?
How many of you have a map in your car, the old Rand McNally?
Any of you got that?
A couple of you.
Praise the Lord.
Y'all are prepared, amen?
And still use it, right?
Why?
Because sometimes that GPS might fail you.
Holly was trying to get back to the church.
We had a, there was a board meeting in the afternoon at that beacon rally, and I was
part of that, and so she wasn't there for that, and she was trying to make her way back
to the church, and the reception wasn't so great, and the GPS said, you have reached
your destination, you may have to walk.
I'd never heard a GPS say that before.
And let me just tell you, she would have had to walk for an hour or more from where she
was to be where the church was.
It took her completely to the wrong place.
She called me, and I said, honey, I have no idea where you are.
So with having no idea where you are, and honestly, even if I knew where she was, I
don't know that I would know how to get her to where I was, because I'm not familiar with
that area.
You know what she needed?
She needed some direction.
And so Bart, guess what I did?
It was 6.58, church started at 7 o'clock, I was stressed out, how am I gonna get my
wife here, I don't know how to help her, and I thought, Donna Stroop is here.
Now some of you guys know Dan Stroop, Donna Stroop, they lived there, they lived there
for years.
I said, Donna will be able to talk her through how to get here.
And I went and found Donna, and I said, Donna, can you please call Holly?
She's lost.
Can you help her get here?
You know what?
She was able to one step at a time, she needed direction.
But I couldn't give it to her.
But there was somebody that could, and if I could use that physical illustration of
an event that took place just last night, in your life and in my life, we need direction,
we need God's direction.
We need God to provide us with leadership.
And as we look at this passage of Scripture, and we note the approach of David, I would
say that David's approach here in Psalm 25 when he's longing for direction, when he's
seeking the Lord, that his approach is exemplary.
And it's noteworthy that we would take and we would look at this and we would learn from
this and not only understand that David was making good decisions and David was following
a good path, but this is not just provided for us to be able to look at a historical
account, but so that we could learn that in our lives we need direction and we can go
to God knowing that He can provide that direction for us.
In fact, just this week I sent a text message to one of the young people in our church,
and I sent a text message just letting them know I was praying for them, how school was,
so on and so forth, and I said, listen, is there anything specific I can pray for you
about?
And they sent me a text back and they didn't say these words, would you pray for direction,
but through everything that they said in the text message, basically if you boiled it down
into a single statement, it was, would you pray for direction?
And I'm thankful that God will answer that prayer.
Notice with me the example of David here.
Notice his behavior, what he does in a time of needing direction, longing for direction.
In verse number four, he says, show me thy ways, O Lord.
Notice where he says, show me thy ways, O Lord.
And David is interested in having direction, but he's interested in having divine direction.
He's interested in God showing, revealing to him, teaching him God's ways.
He says, teach me, notice in verse number four, teach me thy paths.
And we notice that as David says in verse number four, show me and teach me, he's seeking
the Lord, the one who is Jehovah God, the one who knows all things, the one who knows
what's on the morrow, and he needs direction, he's longing for direction, and so he says,
show me thy ways, teach me thy paths.
And then we find in verse number five, he says, lead me in thy truth, and teach me,
for thou art the God of my salvation, on thee do I wait all the day.
Isn't that a great approach?
When someone is longing for direction, when David, if it is in fact the case that he's
dealing with the revolt of Absalom, as many assume to be the setting for this particular
psalm, and he has all of this chaos in the kingdom and all these things that are going
on, and God, what do I do?
How do I handle this?
What step do I take?
And notice he says, for thou art the God of my salvation, and then he says this, on thee
do I wait all the day.
He had mentioned earlier in verse number three about yea, let none that wait on thee be ashamed,
and we mentioned last week, and it's worth repeating this evening, that this idea of
waiting is not only patiently waiting for the Lord to provide and to give the green
light, so to speak, with regard to the direction, but there's also the idea of serving the Lord,
waiting on the Lord, and both are seen within even the passage.
When I'm waiting on God to provide me for direction for my next step, I continue to
serve the Lord.
I don't stop serving God because I'm waiting for the next piece of information, or the
next step that I'm to take, no, I'm actively doing what I know that God has already told
me to do as I'm waiting for direction in that next step.
And we find that David here, he says teach me, he says it in verse number four, he says
it again in verse number five, can I tell you this evening that just in those simple
words it reveals to us something that is important, humility, humility.
You know, to be taught requires humility, and when we think about David saying here,
to the Lord, teach me.
David knows that God is far greater than he is,
and so he's going to have this humble approach.
It reveals to us not only humility,
but it reveals to us dependence.
Teach me.
Lord, I'm depending on you.
I'm trusting you, Lord.
I don't know what to do.
Teach me.
I'm gonna be humble.
I'm gonna wait.
I'm gonna be dependent.
And I'm gonna recognize that you are the one
that is able to provide me with the direction that I need,
and I desperately need direction.
Notice, if you will, as we continue to look at this
throughout the psalm as we did last week
and looked at various aspects of the longing for peace,
but even this longing for direction.
Notice, if you will, in verse number eight.
Good and upright is the Lord.
Isn't that a great statement?
Listen, our God is good all the time.
God is good because that's who he is.
It's not based upon your circumstances or my circumstances.
God is good.
He's good all the time.
And then he says, therefore,
because God is good and upright,
therefore will he teach sinners in the way.
Now, think about the fact,
if we could look at this and understand this this evening,
who we are in relationship to who he is.
Now, I'm thankful this evening because of salvation.
I am a child of God.
I'm a joint heir with Jesus Christ.
I have been adopted, hallelujah.
I am his son and praise God for that.
But the God of the universe that would save us,
that knows everything about us,
that he would care enough about our lives
to provide us with direction,
that he would take interest in each of us as individuals
and provide us with direction.
It's amazing that God loves us that much.
God didn't save us and then just say,
figure it out for yourselves.
God didn't create and say, you guys all figured out.
No, God has a personal interest in every single one of us.
And the truth of the matter this evening
is that all of us need direction,
but all of us need different direction.
Why do I say that?
Because we're all dealing with different things.
And we need direction in our lives
for the things that we're facing
and the direction that I need
is different than the direction that you need.
And the direction that you need
is different than the direction that someone else needs.
Why?
Because you're dealing
with a different set of circumstances.
We understand that as we are facing the circumstances
in life and as we go to God and we seek him.
Listen, I find this evening that how does God teach us?
He teaches us through his word.
So we can't simply say, Lord, teach me
and then have no relationship to his word.
We can't say, Lord, teach me
and then skip out on going to hearing the public teaching
and preaching of God's word.
Why?
Because God's gonna use his word to give us an answer
to the prayer of seeking direction.
We can't skip our Bible reading.
Why?
Because God's gonna provide that direction.
Thy word is a lamp unto my feet.
Is that not what the Bible says of itself?
And God will provide that direction.
Not only does God use his word to give us direction,
but God uses the Holy Spirit.
And I'm thankful for the Holy Spirit.
I'm thankful that at the moment of salvation,
we are indwelled with the Spirit of God.
And the Spirit of God will guide us.
He will teach us and he will guide us into all truth.
But I want you to understand something
extremely important this evening.
The Holy Spirit of God will never lead the child of God
to do something contrary to the word of God.
The Holy Spirit of God will always,
every single time, he will always lead us,
direct us in agreement with his written word.
It's important for us to understand why.
Because sometimes people take a step back and say,
well, the Spirit led me.
No, no, no, no, no.
I'm not sure what spirit that was,
but John says try the spirits.
Does he not?
And we find here this evening that David is understanding
that because of God's character,
that is noted here in verse number eight,
that he was confident that God will teach.
Therefore, will he teach sinners in the way?
And what a joy to know that God will provide us
when we come to him and say, God, I need direction.
He says, okay.
Now, here's the important thing.
We gotta also determine
that we're gonna follow his direction.
Amen?
When we ask for God's direction,
when we seek the Lord and we say,
Lord, guide us, lead us, show us,
we must come, we must approach that
with the heart attitude of obedience.
It's like Samuel when he says,
speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth.
That word hereth carries with it the idea
of I'm going to hear it so that I can do it,
so that I can carry it out.
That's what the word means.
And so when I seek God for direction,
when you seek God for direction and God answers,
it's not that I say, okay, now I'm gonna consider
if I'm gonna follow this direction or not.
That's not how it works.
Have you ever been in a place
where you thought you could navigate your journey
better than the GPS?
Have you ever done that?
The GPS says to go this way,
and you're like, nah, I know a better way.
Have you ever done that?
I've done that.
Mark said, Mimi's pointing at Mark, he doesn't.
You know what I found out?
That GPS is smarter than I am.
I don't know how it knows what it knows,
but I've done some things in the past,
and I'm like, I'm not going that way,
I'm not gonna sit in traffic,
I'm not gonna deal with it,
I know a better way, and I go a different way,
and I'm like, man, I should've gone the other way.
It's happened many times.
Can I tell you this evening that God,
God, He has perfect knowledge,
and when He gives us direction,
it's not for us to consider
whether we're gonna obey it or not.
It's just for us to say, yes, Lord, yes, Lord,
and we just do it.
We take heed to that which He provides us with
as we note some of the conditions
as David continues to speak about this idea
of receiving direction or instruction in life.
We know in verse number nine,
the Bible says, the meek will He guide in judgment,
and the meek will He teach His way.
It's interesting, He mentions the meek here.
That word means to be humble.
We noted that a moment ago
when we talked about David saying, teach me,
but we also understand that it carries with it
the idea of being submissive to the will of God.
God knows your heart.
He knows my heart.
Our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked,
according to Jeremiah 17 in verse number nine,
but according to verse number 10,
it's the Lord who tries the rains.
God tries, He knows our hearts.
He knows your thoughts.
He knows my thoughts,
and here the Bible says that
the meek will He guide in judgment,
the meek will He teach His way.
So I wonder this evening as we begin
to consider these conditions,
and we see the first being that of being meek,
submissive, and humble to the will of God.
We find in verses 12 through 14
that He's speaking about fearing the Lord.
Notice in verse 12, what man is he that feareth the Lord?
Him shall He teach in the way that He shall choose.
His soul shall dwell at ease,
and His seed shall inherit the earth.
The secret of the Lord is with them that fear Him,
and He will show them His covenant.
Isn't that an amazing verse in verse number 14?
The Bible says that the secret of the Lord
is with them that fear Him,
and He will show them His covenant.
Understand with me this evening
that there are nuggets of truth within the Bible.
We're to search the scriptures and dig out the truth,
and there are times in which you must labor and labor
and study and study and compare scripture with scripture,
and you see that as you truly come
with that meek, humble approach,
fearing the Lord and desiring that He would show you
that God reveals truth to you, that He gives you truth.
And we find that it says here in verse nine
about the meek in verses 12 through 14,
those that fear Him.
Tonight, as we consider David longing for direction,
I ask this question to myself and to you as well,
do you need direction?
There's some things you're facing in life
and you need direction.
And here's the important thing that we must understand.
As we look at the passage of scripture
and we consider the longing for direction
that David is revealing to us in this psalm,
and then thinking about our own lives,
here's what I want us to consider this evening.
Do we honestly want to know God?
know God's way? Or do you simply want Him to bless your way? I want you to think about
that just for a moment this evening. Sometimes what happens in life, if we're not careful,
is we have a plan. We know what we want to do. We know where we want to go. And we just
simply say, God, would you bless my path? Would you bless my way? Why? Because I'm already
determined where I'm going. Are you tracking with me tonight? It's a pitfall for us. It's
dangerous for us. So do we honestly, sincerely want God to show me His way, and I'm going
to step in obedience to what He has for me, the direction that He has for me? Or are we
just simply saying, here's where I'm going, here's what I'm doing, here's how I'm living
my life, and God just bless me? Do you see the difference? And what happens sometimes
in life is if we're not careful, we get to the place where we think, this is my life.
And so therefore, it's my life. I get to choose what I want to do. I get to choose
where I'm going to go, which direction I'm going to go in, so on and so forth. And I'm
not going to step outside of maybe my comfort zone, to use that terminology that we've heard
many times over the years. Why? Because I'm already on this trajectory. I'm already in
this direction. And so God just bless me as I'm going this way. Or we just simply say,
I want to go your way. Show me thy paths, right? Show me, teach me thy truth. And we
find this evening, I was speaking to a man in the last week, and he was sharing with
me a testimony of one of his relatives. And his relative was raised a certain way, with
a certain understanding of what he would do with his life. His parents were wealthy,
had lots of land, and it was just known that that son would follow in those same steps
and carry on the family business, if you will. But they were Christians. And that young man
felt that God was calling him to the mission field. So what's he going to do? Is he going
to say and submit to what God is leading in his life, or is he going to say, my path's
already been laid out for me? There's already these expectations. And the way the story
was told to me is that man surrendered to go to the mission field. He went to Bible
College, and the day that he went to Bible College, his parents disowned him and removed
him completely from any will, inheritance, anything. This was just in the last like 60
years. This wasn't like 300 years ago. This was in the last 60 years. But I'm thankful
for someone that had the courage and the commitment and the humility to say, I'm going to do what
God's called me to do. And when we need direction, can I tell you this evening that sometimes
when we're seeking God's face for direction, sometimes He leads us in such a way and we
might say, are you sure? But really, we're the ones that are just doubting it because
God knows His way is perfect. Look, if you will, over at Exodus chapter number 13 with
me, and I want to close with this tonight. We won't take much time here, but I want you
to look at Exodus chapter 13 with me. And in Exodus chapter number 13, we find that
there's an example that God provides us with of His leadership for the nation of Israel.
The 10th plague, the death of the firstborn, has been completed, and we know that there's
been just disaster in the land of Egypt for the Egyptians and the children of Israel have
seen the hand of the Lord. And we find that as we come to the end of chapter 13, beginning
in verse number 17, the Bible says, and it came to pass when Pharaoh had let the people
go. And I want you to notice this phrase that God led them. But it says God led them not
through the way of the land of the Philistines. And then do you notice the next phrase that
says, although that was near. Although that was near. For God said, lest peradventure
the people repent when they see war and they return to Egypt. You know, God knew something
about the way that was near that those people didn't know. God knew something about the
way that was near that would impact and affect adversely His children if He led them that
way. Right? Because it says God led them not through the way of the land of the Philistines.
Although that was near. And we find that sometimes, and I think for the children of Israel as
you look here, they're thinking here's the way we're going to go. Listen, sometimes we
have a preconceived idea. This is what we're going to, and God says this is, I want you
to go this way. Verse number 18, but God led the people about through the way of the wilderness
of the Red Sea. The children of Israel went up harnessed out of the land of Egypt and
Moses took the bones of Joseph with him for he had straightly sworn the children of Israel
saying God will surely visit you and you shall carry up my bones away hence with you. They
took their journey from Succoth and encamped in Etham in the edge of the wilderness and
the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of a cloud to lead them the way by night in
a pillar of fire to give them light to go by day and night. He took not away the pillar
of the cloud by day nor the pillar of fire by night from before the people. Isn't that
a blessing? God led them. So here's my question. If God led them, were they in the right place?
Yes or no? Yeah, I mean God led them. Pillar of cloud by day, pillar of fire by night.
In chapter number 14 the Lord spake unto Moses saying speak unto the children of Israel that
they turn and encamp before Pi-hahiroth between Migdal and the sea over against Baal-zephon
before it shall ye encamp by the sea. We find that of course you're familiar with chapter
14 of the book of Exodus, the parting of the Red Sea, but before we get to that I want
you to notice, and we're not actually going to deal with that tonight, but I want you
to notice in verse number 9 the Bible says the Egyptians pursued after them, that's the
children of Israel, and all the horses and chariots of Pharaoh and his horsemen and his
army and overtook them encamping by the sea beside Pi-hahiroth before Baal-zephon. Is
that where they were supposed to be? Is that where God led them? Yes? Absolutely, right?
God led them there. The Bible tells us in verse number 10, and when Pharaoh drew nigh,
the children of Israel lifted up their eyes and behold the Egyptians marched after them
and they were sore afraid and the children of Israel cried out unto the Lord and here's
what they said, they said unto Moses because there were no graves in Egypt hast thou taken
us away to die in the wilderness, wherefore hast thou dealt thus with us to carry us forth
out of Egypt. Is not this the word that we did tell thee in Egypt saying let us alone
that we may serve the Egyptians for it had been better for us to serve the Egyptians
than that we should die in the wilderness. It was God that led them. But they faced a
difficulty. They were where God led them to be. Why do I bring up this passage? We could
look at a number of other passages throughout Exodus and Numbers and see this very thing
taking place repeatedly in the nation of Israel's history. When you follow God's leadership
and you follow His direction, it doesn't always mean that it's going to be perfectly blissful
with no problems. Sometimes, what did Jesus say to the disciples? Go to the other side
of the sea. Right? Is that what Jesus told them? And what did they encounter? A storm.
Were they doing what God told them to do? Were they following? Were they obedient? Were
they abiding in the word that God gave? Absolutely, they were obeying. And in their obedience,
they encountered a storm. You know, I've learned this in life and the more I read the Bible,
the more I live life, the more I learn this. If there were no storms, if we never had a
storm, we'd truly never know how great our God is. We just wouldn't know. You say, but
I don't like the storms. I understand. I'm in that same category with you, right? Like,
I don't like them, but I'm learning. I haven't learned. I'm learning.
understanding that God has a plan.
And when I follow God's direction, when I'm seeking, Lord, I don't know what to do.
Sometimes here's what happens in the, I'll use the term the carnal mind.
We take a step over here and we have a problem, we say, I must have made a bad mistake.
I should be over here.
Why?
Because there was a problem and so I obviously made a bad decision.
But spiritually, if we're seeking God's direction and God is leading us, and by the way, the
shepherd leads the sheep, then when we encounter that difficulty, we don't have to second guess
and retreat and change course.
We just simply say, I know God's led me here and so God's going to do something here.
God's going to teach me something here.
God's going to reveal something to me here.
And this evening, it's truly a matter of us truly submitting, having that meekness, having
the fear of the Lord and saying, God, I need your direction and I'm going to obey you.
I'm going to follow you.
I'm not simply asking God, here are all of my plans and now would you bless them?
No, I'm saying, God, I want you to give me the plans for my life.
We sing songs, my life, Lord, is yours to control.
That's a powerful song, by the way.
Take my life and let it be.
Where he leads me, I will follow.
And we could go through song after song after song that we're familiar with and the reality
for us is that it's an everyday decision.
We got things going on, we need direction.
We need God's direction.
I need to know that I'm where I'm supposed to be doing what I'm supposed to be doing
and God's hand of blessing can be upon me.
I want the God of the universe who knows everything and sees everything.
I want him guiding my steps.
I don't want to be the one making the decisions just for myself.
No, I want God through His Word, through His Spirit.
Aren't you thankful when the Spirit of God gives you that confirmation, that peace, that
peace that this is my plan for you?
You say, but I don't know how it's going to...
We trust the Lord.
We trust the Lord that He's got a purpose in it.
David was longing for peace.
David was longing for direction.
In both instances, we can relate.
In both instances, David goes to the only one that can provide true peace in perfect
direction and tonight we too have access to Jehovah God who can provide us with true peace
in perfect direction and that is a great blessing.
This evening, you need some direction?
Seek the Lord.
God, show me Thy paths.
Teach me with that measure of humility.
Guide me.
Let's pray.
Father, we love you.
We certainly thank you for loving us.
We thank you that you would care about us, you care for us.
We're thankful tonight that you will show us, teach us in the way that we ought to go
and I pray, Lord, that you would help us to be submissive and obedient, that we would
truly desire to know your way and that, God, you would order our steps, that we would please
you, honor you, and glorify you.
We thank you for the privilege of prayer and we pray that you would bless the remainder
of the service and, Lord, I pray that your name would be exalted for it's in Christ's
name we pray.
Amen.
All right.